Chapter 1: Introduction to AWS

A region is a named set of AWS resources in the same geographical area. A region
comprises at least two Availability Zones. Endpoint, Collection, and Fleet do not describe
a physical location around the world where AWS clusters data centers.

 An Availability Zone is a distinct location within a region that is insulated from
failures in other Availability Zones and provides inexpensive, low-latency network
connectivity to other Availability Zones in the same region. Replication areas, geographic
districts, and compute centers are not terms used to describe AWS data center locations.

 A hybrid deployment is a way to connect infrastructure and applications between
cloud-based resources and existing resources that are not located in the cloud. An all-in
deployment refers to an environment that exclusively runs in the cloud. An on-premises
deployment refers to an environment that runs exclusively in an organization’s data
center.

Amazon CloudWatch is a monitoring service for AWS Cloud resources and the
applications organizations run on AWS. It allows organizations to collect and track
metrics, collect and monitor log files, and set alarms. AWS IAM, Amazon SNS, and AWS
CloudFormation do not provide visibility into resource utilization, application
performance, and the operational health of your AWS resources.

 Amazon DynamoDB is a fully managed, fast, and flexible NoSQL database service for
all applications that need consistent, single-digit millisecond latency at any scale.
Amazon SQS, Amazon ElastiCache, and Amazon RDS do not provide a NoSQL database
service. Amazon SQS is a managed message queuing service. Amazon ElastiCache is a
service that provides in-memory cache in the cloud. Finally, Amazon RDS provides
managed relational databases.

Auto Scaling helps maintain application availability and allows organizations to scale
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) capacity up or down automatically
according to conditions defined for the particular workload. Not only can it be used to
help ensure that the desired number of Amazon EC2 instances are running, but it also
allows resources to scale in and out to match the demands of dynamic workloads.
Amazon Glacier, Amazon SNS, and Amazon VPC do not provide services to scale compute
capacity automatically.

 Amazon CloudFront is a web service that provides a CDN to speed up distribution of
your static and dynamic web content—for example, .html , .css , .php , image, and media
files—to end users. Amazon CloudFront delivers content through a worldwide network of
edge locations. Amazon EC2, Amazon Route 53, and AWS Storage Gateway do not
provide CDN services that are required to meet the needs for the photo sharing service.

 Amazon EBS provides persistent block-level storage volumes for use with Amazon
EC2 instances on the AWS Cloud. Amazon DynamoDB, Amazon Glacier, and AWS
CloudFormation do not provide persistent block-level storage for Amazon EC2 instances.
Amazon DynamoDB provides managed NoSQL databases. Amazon Glacier provides low-
cost archival storage. AWS CloudFormation gives developers and systems administrators
an easy way to create and manage a collection of related AWS resources.

 Amazon VPC lets organizations provision a logically isolated section of the AWS Cloud
where they can launch AWS resources in a virtual network that they define. Amazon
SWF, Amazon Route 53, and AWS CloudFormation do not provide a virtual network.
Amazon SWF helps developers build, run, and scale background jobs that have parallel or
sequential steps. Amazon Route 53 provides a highly available and scalable cloud
Domain Name System (DNS) web service. Amazon CloudFormation gives developers and
systems administrators an easy way to create and manage a collection of related AWS
resources.

Amazon SQS is a fast, reliable, scalable, fully managed message queuing service that
allows organizations to decouple the components of a cloud application. With Amazon
SQS, organizations can transmit any volume of data, at any level of throughput, without
losing messages or requiring other services to be always available. AWS CloudTrail
records AWS API calls, and Amazon Redshift is a data warehouse, neither of which
would be useful as an architecture component for decoupling components. Amazon SNS
provides a messaging bus complement to Amazon SQS; however, it doesn’t provide the
decoupling of components necessary for this scenario.